// Status=edited

The following controls appear just under the decoded text windows on
the main screen. The top row appears only if *Band Buttons* is checked
on the *View* menu, and some controls on the second row are visible
only when a relevant mode is in use.

//.Main UI 
image::main-ui-controls.png[align="center",width=650,alt="Main UI Controls"]

* When *CQ only* is checked, only messages from stations calling CQ are displayed in the left text panel.

* When *BP* is checked, active filtering options are bypassed and all
decoded messages will be displayed.

* *Log QSO* raises a dialog window pre-filled with known information
about a QSO you have nearly completed.  You can edit or add to this
information before clicking *OK* to log the QSO.  If you check *Prompt
me to log QSO* on the *File | Settings | Reporting* tab, the program
raises the confirmation screen automatically when you send a message
containing +73+. For additional details see <<LOGGING,*Logging*>>.

* *Stop* terminates normal data acquisition in case you want to
freeze the waterfall or open and explore a previously recorded audio
file.

* *Monitor* toggles normal receive operation on or off.  This button
is highlighted in green when _WSJT-X_ is receiving. and in yellow if
audio file saving has been selected on the *Save* menu.  If you are
using CAT control, toggling *Monitor* OFF relinquishes control of the
rig; if *Monitor returns to last used frequency* is selected on the
*File | Settings | General* tab, toggling *Monitor* back ON will
return to the original frequency.

* *Erase*: Click to clear the right text window, double-click to clear
the left window. If *Alternate Erase button behavior* is checked on
the *File | Settings | General* tab, left-click clears the left
window, right-click clears the right window, and double-click clears
both.

* *Clear Avg* is displayed only in modes that support message
averaging.  Click the button to erase the accumulating message
information, thus preparing to start a new average.

* *Avg nn* sets the number of consecutive *Echo* cycles to be averaged.

* *Decode* tells the program to repeat the decoding procedure at the
Rx frequency (green marker on waterfall scale), using the most recently
completed sequence of received data.  

* *Enable Tx* toggles automatic T/R sequencing mode on or off. The
button is highlighted in red when ON, or orange if *Wait and Pounce*
has been set.  A transmission will start at the beginning of the
selected odd or even sequence, or immediately if appropriate.
Toggling the button to OFF during a transmission allows the current
transmission to finish.

* *Halt Tx* terminates a transmission immediately and disables
automatic T/R sequencing.

* *Tune* toggles the program into Tx mode and generates an unmodulated
carrier at the specified Tx frequency (red marker on waterfall scale).
This process is useful for adjusting an antenna tuner or tuning an
amplifier.  The button is highlighted in red while *Tune* is active.
Toggle the button a second time or click *Halt Tx* to terminate the
*Tune* process.  

* Uncheck the box *Menus* to make the top-of-window menus disappear,
leaving more vertical space for decoded messages.