// Status=edited

Controls related to frequency selection, received audio level, the
station being called, and date and time are found in the lower
left-hand section of the main window.  Buttons are provided for making
quick changes among the modes FT8, FT4, MSK144, Q65, JT65, Echo, and
for toggling FT8 Hound mode ON or OFF. If *Enable Wait features* is
checked on the *File | Settings | General* tab and a callsign is
present in the *DX Call* box, the *DX Call* button turns yellow to
warn that your station is primed to transmit.

//.Misc Controls Left
image::misc-main-ui.png[align="center",alt="Misc Menu Items"]

* A drop-down list of frequencies and bands at upper left lets you
select the operating band. It also sets dial frequency to a value
taken from the *File | Settings | Frequencies* tab.  If CAT control is
active, the radio's dial frequency is set accordingly; if not, you
must tune the radio manually.

* Alternatively, you can enter a frequency (in MHz) or band name in
recognized ADIF format, for example 630m, 20m, or 70cm.  The band-name
format works only if a working frequency has been set for that band
and mode, in which case the first such match (or your preferred match)
is selected.

* You can also enter a frequency increment in kHz above the currently
displayed integer MHz. For example, if the displayed frequency is
10,368.100, enter `165k` to QSY to 10,368.165.

* When the mouse pointer is placed over the dial frequency indicator,
mouse buttons (left and right) and the scroll wheel can be used to
adjust the dial frequency in 1 kHz increments. 

* A small colored circle appears in green if the CAT control is
activated and functional.  The green circle contains the character S
if the rig is detected to be in *Split* mode.  The circle turns red if
you have requested CAT control but communication with the radio has
been lost.

TIP: Many Icom rigs cannot be queried for split status, current VFO or
split transmit frequency. When using _WSJT-X_ with such radios you
should not change the current VFO, split status or dial frequency
using controls on the radio.

* If *DX Grid* contains a valid Maidenhead locator, the corresponding
great-circle azimuth and distance from your location are displayed 
below the *DX Call* and *DX Grid* entry fields.

* The program can maintain and make use of a database of callsigns and
locators for future reference.  Click *Add* to insert the present call
and locator in the database; click *Lookup* to retrieve the locator
for a previously stored call.  This feature is mainly useful for
situations in which the number of active stations is modest and
reasonably stable, such as EME (Earth-Moon-Earth) communication.  The
callsign file name is `CALL3.TXT`, and you can download examples from
the *File | Settings | Colors* tab.

* You can invoke on-line searches for details about a station with a
simple mouse click. Right-click on the *Lookup* button to search for
the DX Call on `qrz.com`, the *Add* button for `hamqth.com`, and the
*Ignore* button `qrzcq.com`.