// Status=edited

At the center of the main window are a number of controls used when
making QSOs.  Controls not relevant to a particular mode or submode
may be disabled or removed from the display.

//.Misc Controls Center
image::misc-controls-center.png[align="center",alt="Misc Controls Center"]

* Check *Tx even/1st* to transmit in even-numbered UTC minutes or
sequences, starting at 0.  Uncheck this box to transmit in the odd
sequences.  The correct selection is made automatically when you
double-click on a decoded text line, as described in the
<<TUTORIAL,Basic Operating Tutorial>>.

* Tx and Rx audio frequencies can be set automatically by
double-clicking decoded text or a signal in the waterfall.  The
frequencies can also be adjusted using the spinner controls.

* You can force Tx frequency to the current Rx frequency by clicking
the triangle to the left of *F Tol*, or the reverse transformation by
clicking the corresponding downward-pointing button. Your on-the-air
frequency (normally that of your lowest tone) is the sum of dial
frequency and audio Tx frequency.

* Check the box *Hold Tx Freq* to ensure that the specified Tx
frequency is not changed automatically when you double-click on
decoded text or a signal in the waterfall.

* For modes lacking a multi-decode feature, or when *Enable
  VHF/UHF/Microwave features* has been checked on the *File | Settings
  | General* tab, the *F Tol* control sets a frequency tolerance range
  over which decoding is attempted, centered on the Rx frequency.

* The *Report* control lets you change an automatically inserted
signal report. Typical reports for the various modes fall in the range
â€“30 to +20 dB.


+

TIP: Consider reducing power if your QSO partner reports your signal above -5 dB in one of the _WSJT-X_ slow modes.  These are supposed to be weak signal modes!

* In some circumstances, especially on VHF and higher bands, you can
select a supported submode of the active mode by using the *Submode*
control.  The *Sync* control sets a minimum threshold for establishing
time and frequency synchronization with a received signal.

* Spinner control *T/R nn s* sets sequence lengths for transmission
and reception in Q65, FST4, MSK144, and the fast JT9 submodes.

* Spinner control *Tx CQ nnn*, activated by a checkbox to its right,
facilitates calling CQ on a conventional calling frequency and
conducting any resulting QSOs on a different dial frequency. Its use
is described in the section on <<OFFSET_CQ,MSK144>>.

* Checkboxes at bottom center of the main window control special
features for particular operating modes:

** *Sh* enables shorthand messages in JT4, JT65, Q65, and MSK144

** *Fast* enables fast JT9 submodes

** *Auto Seq* enables auto-sequencing of Tx messages

** *Call 1st* enables automatic response to the first decoded
responder to your CQ

** *Tx6* toggles between two types of shorthand messages in JT4 and
    Q65 modes