=== Documentation Conventions

This guide includes many screen shots to illustrate user settings and
program features.  Keep in mind that _WSJT-X_ is a multi-platform
application; the detailed appearance of windows and user controls
will be different in Windows, Linux, or macOS environments.
The underlying functionality is the same on all operating systems,
however.  Where desirable we call special attention to important
platform differences.

Most people access the _WSJT-X User Guide_ primarily through a
browser. Use the browser's search function, generally invoked from the
keyboard with the keys CTRL+F, to search the guide for help on a
particular topic or keyword.

The names of _WSJT-X_ windows, menus, and on-screen controls are
displayed in this manual in boldface type, as in *Wide Graph*.  File
names and information entered via keyboard is shown in a monospace
font, for example `all.txt`.


In this manual the following icons call attention to particular types
of information:

TIP: *Tips* on program features or capabilities that might otherwise
be overlooked. 

NOTE: *Notes* containing information that may be of interest to
particular classes of users.

IMPORTANT: *Warnings* about usage that could lead to undesired
consequences.

=== User Interface in Other Languages

The _WSJT-X_ user interface (UI) is now available in many languages.
When a translated UI is available for the computer's default System
Language, it will appear automatically on program startup. The UI
language may be overridden if desired by starting _WSJT-X_ with a
command line option. For example, to start _WSJT-X_ with its user
interface in Spanish or Japanese, start a command-prompt window and
enter one of these the commands:

`wsjtx --language es`

`wsjtx --language ja`

The top portion of the main window will then look like one of the
following examples:

image::Main_Window_es.png[align="center"]

image::Main_Window_ja.png[align="center"]

=== How You Can Contribute

_WSJT-X_ is part of an open-source project released under the
{gnu_gpl} (GPLv3). If you have programming or documentation skills or
would like to contribute to the project in other ways, please make
your interests known to the development team.  We especially encourage
those with translation skills to volunteer their help, either for
this _User Guide_ or for the program's user interface.

The project's source-code repository can be found at {devrepo}. Bug
reports and suggestions for new features, improvements to the _WSJT-X
User Guide_, etc., may be sent to one of the email lists listed in the
<<SUPPORT,Support>> section. You must join the group in order to post
messages to the email list.

=== License

Before using _WSJT-X_, please read our licensing terms
<<LICENSE,here>>.
