// Status=edited

Menus at top of the main window offer many options for configuration
and operation. Some are self-explanatory; additional details for
others are provided below. Keyboard shortcuts for some frequently
used menu items are listed at the right edge of the menu.

=== _WSJT-X_ menu
image::MacAppMenu.png[align="left",alt="Mac App Menu"]

This menu appears on the Macintosh only. *Settings* appears here,
labeled as *Preferences*, rather than on the *File* menu.  *About WSJT-X* appears here rather than on the *Help* menu.

[[FILE_MENU]]
=== File menu
image::file-menu.png[align="left",alt="File Menu"]

[[CONFIG_MENU]]
=== Configuration Menu
image::config-menu.png[align="left",alt="File Menu"]

Some users prefer to create and use entries on the *Configurations*
menu for switching between modes.  Simply *Clone* the *Default* entry,
*Rename* it as desired, and then make all desired settings for that
configuration. All settings will be restored whenever you select that
configuration.

As well as switching between configurations while running _WSJT-X_, you
can also start the application from the command line in any desired
configuration.  Use the command-line option
`--config <configuration-name>`, or `-c` for short, as in these
examples for configurations named `FT8` and `Echo`:

 wsjtx --config FT8
 wsjtx -c Echo

[[VIEW_MENU]]
=== View Menu

Most items on the *View* menu can be clicked to display a specified
window. Some are self-explanatory or described in detail elsewhere
in this guide; additional details for others are included below.

image::view-menu.png[align="left",alt="View Menu"]

.Active Stations

*Active Stations* is a window with two distinct purposes. The first
can help you work the most distant stations, in particular for the
distance-scored ARRL International Digital Contest. You can set the
maximum length of the list and the maximum "`Age`" of displayed
decodes, measured in Rx sequences.  You can request display of only
ready-to-be-called stations: those whose most recent transmission is a
CQ, RR73, or 73 message. For the ARRL International Digital Contest
the window displays scoring *Rate* (points in the most recent hour),
your total accumulated *Score*, and the number of *Band Changes* in
the past hour.

image::active_stations.png[align="center",alt="Active Stations"]

When _WSJT-X_ is used together with sister program _QMAP_, the *Active
Stations* window displays the frequencies, SNRs, Q65 sub-modes, and
Maidenhead locators for stations recently decoded by _QMAP_ over its
full 90 kHz bandwidth. Stations using a 30-second sub-mode of Q65 are
highlighted in yellow. You can limit the displayed list by checking
the *Wanted only* and/or *CQ only* boxes. The total number of QSOs
found in `wsjtx.log` is shown, for example to follow your progress
in an EME contest.  

image::active_stations_QMAP.png[align="center"]

.SWL Mode

*SWL Mode* reduces the main window to show just the menus, decodes
windows, and status bar. You may find this useful when running
multiple instances of the application. The size and location of the
main window are saved and recalled independently for this view.

image::view_SWL.png[align="left",alt="View SWL"]

.Message Creator, QSY Monitor, and Enable Message Popups

A special messaging system can be used to invite your QSO partner to
move to another band or mode (for example, during a contest), or to
convey some short canned messages. There are two main parts, the
*Message Creator* and the *QSY Monitor*. Received messages are
displayed in popup windows.

Use the Message Creator to create and send these special messages with
just a few clicks. When using this feature for the first time, make
sure that your IARU Region has been set (upper right on the *File |
Settings | General* tab). Activate the *Message Creator* window by
checking its name on the *View* menu. Four tabs are available: HF,
VHF, EME and General:

image::mc3.png[align="center",alt="Creator Tabs"]

To send a message, select the appropriate tab and then the band, mode,
and kHz part of frequency for a QSY request, or a canned message from
the *General* tab. The actual message to be sent will be shown in the
field labeled *Message* on each tab. Click *Send Message* to have this
message conveyed in your next scheduled transmission. *Enable Tx* will
be activated automatically, and your message will be sent to the
callsign in the *DX Call* field of the main window.  The example below
shows the creation of a message to W3SZ asking him to QSY to 145.550
using FM.

image::mc4.png[align="center",alt="Creator window"]

To prepare for receiving special messages, check *Enable Message
Popups* on the *View* menu. A screenshot showing the example message
sent to W3SZ is shown below. As recipient, W3SZ can click *Reply Yes*
or *Reply No*, and his reply message will be sent in the next Tx
interval to the callsign present in the recipient's DX callsign box.

image::mc6.png[align="center",alt="Received message"]

TIP: After use, the Message System text remains in the Tx 6 field.  Tx
6 can be reset to the standard CQ message by clicking the *Generate
Std Msgs* 

You can view messages sent to other stations, as well as to yourself.
To do so, check *QSY Monitor* on the *View* menu. An example showing a
number of received messages is shown below.

image::mc7.png[align="center",alt="QSY Monitor"]

[[BAND_BUTTONS]]
.Band Buttons

Optional band select buttons can be switched on or off from the *View*
menu. Two sets of buttons are available. Check *Band Buttons* to get
an HF-oriented set for 160 m through 70 cm, and also *VHF / UHF
Buttons* to display a set for 8 m through 24 GHz.  Clicking on a band
button switches the program to a mode-dependent default frequency
selected from the frequency table for that band. In FT8 mode,
right-clicking a band button will set dial frequency to the
conventional DXpedition frequency (or on 6 m, to the intercontinental
frequency). To define your own preferred default frequencies, check
the relevant *Pref* boxes on the <<BAND_SETTINGS,*File | Settings |
Frequencies*>> tab.

image::bandbutton1.png[align="center",alt="bandbutton1"]

.Dark Style

Select *Dark Style* to switch to a dark-background theme for all
windows.  To make it effective you will probably want to redefine your
color settings.

image::dark.png[align="center"]

[[FILTERS_MENU]]
=== Filters Menu

image::filters-menu.png[align="left"]

The *Filters* menu lets you control a wide variety of
message-filtering options. Many of them are defined on the
<<FILTERS,*File | Settings | Filters*>> tab.  You can hide, ignore, or
highlight stations worked before on the current band, worked today or
yesterday, or those present in the Ignore List. A checkbox labelled
*BP* on the main window (just left of the *Log QSO* button) allows all
filtering options to be bypassed temporarily with a single click. This
action can be used, for example, if you have filtered out your own
continent to display only DX stations but now wish to monitor all band
activity.

[[MODE_MENU]]
=== Mode Menu
image::mode-menu.png[align="left",alt="Mode Menu"]

[[DECODE_MENU]]
=== Decode Menu

All _WSJT-X_ modes offer *Fast*, *Normal*, and *Deep* decoding
options. *Deep* usually provides the best sensitivity, at the cost
of slower processing and a slightly higher probability of false
decodes. 

In FT8 mode you can select a multithreaded decoder with many additional
options. You may wish to experiment with the various possibilities
to obtain best overall performance in your setup. In general we find
the multithreaded decoder yields a greater number of decodes on a busy
band, while the single-threaded *Deep* setting is best for extreme
weak signal work.

image::decode-menu.png[align="left",alt="Decode Menu"]

*Full Duplex Mode* can also be selected from the *Decode* menu. Audio
input can be taken from a second local receiver or from a WebSDR on
the internet. Duplex operation works for slow modes (FT8, FT4, Q65, â€¦
) and fast modes like MSK144. Your own transmitted messages will be
highlighted in the *Band Activity* window in the color you selected
for "Transmitted message" on the *File | Settings | Colors* tab.

An additional option to disable mouse clicks on the waterfall, visible
only when Q65 mode is selected, and VHF Features are enabled, can be 
selected to prevent inadvertent mouse clicks on the waterfall from 
changing the Rx and/or Tx offset frequencies.  When selected, frequency
changes can still be made using the mouse by holding down the ALT key.

[[SAVE_MENU]]
[[SAVE-WAV]]
=== Save Menu
image::save-menu.png[align="left",alt="Save Menu"]

You can control the types of information that _WSJT-X saves during an
operating session, perhaps for future analysis or diagnostic purposes.
For example, check *Save decoded* to save audio files for all
receiving sequences producing at least one decode. The file `ALL.TXT`
is a record of everything you have transmitted or received. You can
choose to have it automatically split into smaller chunks by month or
year, or to disable it entirely. Some diagnostic logging of events
always takes place. *Diagnostic mode* lets you collect more data to
troubleshoot problems with the program, or with its communication with
your rig.

image::diagnostic.png[align="center",alt="Diagnostic mode"]

=== Tools Menu
image::tools-menu.png[align="left",alt="Tools Menu"]

[[HELP_MENU]]
=== Help Menu
image::help-menu.png[align="left",alt="Help Menu"]
