Filters provide a way to limit what is displayed in the *Band Activity*
window. Define desired filtering categories using entry fields and
checkboxes on the *Filters* tab. You can turn many filters on or off
by checking lines on the main-window <<FILTERS_MENU,*Filters*>>
menu.

image::filters1.png[align="center",alt="Filters"]

You can specify up to four territories for which hiding messages can
be switched on or off using options on the main window *Filters* menu.
You can hide messages from a specific continent, or stations worked
before on a band. There are entry fields for a *Blacklist*, a
*Whitelist*, and an *Always Pass* list, and these can be used in
combination. *Blacklist* might be used to suppress decodes from pirate
stations, contest messages, or other messages with unwanted
content. You can enter whole callsigns, parts of callsigns, or
keywords. *Whitelist* can be used if you're interested _only_ in
messages with certain grids, calls, or keywords. All other messages
(except those allowed by the *Always Pass* list) will then be
suppressed. *Always Pass* will enable display of decodes from specific
stations even though the respective country or continent is hidden.

You can optionally apply filters only to callsigns of transmitting
stations, or use the filters only for *Wait and Pounce* operation. In
the latter case, all messages will be displayed in the *Band Activity*
window, but *Wait and Pounce* will respond only to stations that meet
the set filter criteria.

When any filter is active that limits display of some decodes, the
status label at bottom left of the main window changes from green
"Receiving" to cyan "Receiving, Filters on".

TIP: Filters are automatically disabled for Special Operating modes,
to ensure that you donâ€™t accidentally miss a station.

.Ignore List

A click on the *Ignore* button (located on the main window below the
*DX Grid* box) adds the callsign present in the *DX Call* box to your
*Ignore List*. If you have also checked the box *Ignore stations from
the Ignore List* on the main-window *Filters* menu, such stations are
automatically ignored when you use one of the *CQ: ...* options or
*Wait and Reply*. The "Ignore List" will be created in your log
directory the first time a station is added to it.  You can erase the
"Ignore List" from the *File* menu.

TIP: For callsigns in the *Ignore List* or corresponding to a selected
*Ignore ...* Quick Filters, no alert sounds are played unless you have
activated the *BP* (bypass) checkbox. This can be used to temporarily
mute the alerts for a certain callsign.
