_WSJT-X_ can be configured to issue audible alerts when messages with
specified content are decoded. This feature requires computer access
to at least two audio output devices: one for transmitted audio, and a
different one for audible alerts. The device for transmitted audio is
selected on the *Audio* tab; alerts are always played on the *Default*
audio device, most commonly the loudspeaker of your computer.  To
activate audio alerts, check any desired boxes on the *Alerts* menu
and click the button *Enable Audio Alerts*.


image::settings-alerts.png[align="center",alt="Settings Alerts"]


Categories above the line require checking the box *Show DXCC, grid
and worked before status* in the *Display* section of the *File |
Settings | General* tab. To identify what triggered one of these
alerts, ensure that corresponding categories in the *File | Settings |
Colors* tab are selected. Use the checkboxes *Highlight DX Call in
message* and *Highlight DX Grid in message* in the *Display* section
of *File | Settings | General* to help identify what triggered an
alert for *DX Call or DX Grid in message*.

TIP: If a callsign appears in the Ignore list or falls in a checked
*Ignore ...* category on the *Filters* menu, no alert sounds will be
played unless you have checked the *BP* (Bypass) checkbox. This
feature can be used to mute the alerts for a certain callsign with one
click on the *Ignore* button (just below the *DX Grid* box on the main
window). To reset everything and reactivate the alert, click on *File
| Erase Ignore List* or uncheck the *Filters | Ignore ...* item.

IMPORTANT: Before using of audio alerts, make sure they are played
only on your local speaker and _not_ sent to the transmitter!  You can
check by right-clicking on the *Band Hopping* button in Tab 3, as
shown below. A test message will then be played.

image::testalerts.png[align="center",alt="testalerts"]

